Document Runtime Agent (#7167)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/compass/02-03-runtime-agent-workflow.md

---
title: Runtime Agent architecture
type: Architecture
---

This document presents the workflow of Runtime Agent. 

> ![Runtime Agent architecture](./assets/runtime-agent-architecture.svg)

Reviewer: Please use grey for the shape outlines, as suggested in the [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/master/guidelines/content-guidelines/02-diagrams.md#outlines). Moreover, the connectors seem to have too many curves that can easily be straightened.

1. Runtime Agent fetches the certificate from the Connector to initialize connection with Compass.

2. Runtime Agent stores the certificate and key for the Connector and the Director in the Secret.

> 3. Runtime Agent synchronizes the Runtime with the Director by fetching new Applications from the Director and creating them in the Runtime, and removing from the Runtime the Applications that no longer exist in the Director. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Runtime Agent synchronizes the Runtime with the Director by fetching new Applications from the Director and creating them in the Runtime. It also removes from the Runtime the Applications that no longer exist in the Director. 
```

Author: It's one sentence 'cause it's also part of this synchronization mentioned at the beginning.

Reviewer: Can we rephrase and divide it into two shorter sentences in any other way? Such long sentences are a bit confusing and for sure are to be avoided in technical docs. How about introducing bullet points? Something like this:
```
3. Runtime Agent synchronizes the Runtime with the Director by:
- fetching new Applications from the Director and creating them in the Runtime
- removing from the Runtime the Applications that no longer exist in the Director
```

What do you think?

4. Runtime Agent sets the Event URL and the Console URL. 

> 5. Runtime Agent renews the certificate for the Connector and the Director to maintain connection with Compass. 

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we should mention that it does not happen always, rather only when remaining validity time will pass a certain threshold.

> 4. Runtime Agent labels the Runtime data in Director with Event Gateway URL for sending events to the Runtime and Console URL of the Kyma cluster. These URLs are displayed in the Compass UI. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Runtime Agent labels the Runtime data in the Director with Event Gateway URL for sending events to the Runtime and Console URL of the Kyma cluster. These URLs are displayed in the Compass UI. 
```

Reviewer: The first sentence is a bit confusing for me. Let's discuss it.
